



# Example request:
```
curl https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY' \
  -d '{
  "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
  "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}],
  "temperature": 1.0,
  "top_p": 0.5,
  "n": 1,
  "stop": "Got it!",
  "stream": false,
  "max_tokens": 3000,
  "presence_penalty": 0,
  "frequency_penalty": 0,
  "user": ""
}'
```


Introduction
Chat models take a series of messages as input, and return a model-generated message as output.

Although the chat format is designed to make multi-turn conversations easy, it’s just as useful for single-turn tasks without any conversations (such as those previously served by instruction following models like text-davinci-003).

An example API call looks as follows:

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
# Note: you need to be using OpenAI Python v0.27.0 for the code below to work
import openai

openai.ChatCompletion.create(
  model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
  messages=[
        {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
        {"role": "user", "content": "Who won the world series in 2020?"},
        {"role": "assistant", "content": "The Los Angeles Dodgers won the World Series in 2020."},
        {"role": "user", "content": "Where was it played?"}
    ]
)
The main input is the messages parameter. Messages must be an array of message objects, where each object has a role (either “system”, “user”, or “assistant”) and content (the content of the message). Conversations can be as short as 1 message or fill many pages.

Typically, a conversation is formatted with a system message first, followed by alternating user and assistant messages.

The system message helps set the behavior of the assistant. In the example above, the assistant was instructed with “You are a helpful assistant.”

The user messages help instruct the assistant. They can be generated by the end users of an application, or set by a developer as an instruction.

The assistant messages help store prior responses. They can also be written by a developer to help give examples of desired behavior.

Including the conversation history helps when user instructions refer to prior messages. In the example above, the user’s final question of “Where was it played?” only makes sense in the context of the prior messages about the World Series of 2020. Because the models have no memory of past requests, all relevant information must be supplied via the conversation. If a conversation cannot fit within the model’s token limit, it will need to be shortened in some way.

Response format
An example API response looks as follows:

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
{
 'id': 'chatcmpl-6p9XYPYSTTRi0xEviKjjilqrWU2Ve',
 'object': 'chat.completion',
 'created': 1677649420,
 'model': 'gpt-3.5-turbo',
 'usage': {'prompt_tokens': 56, 'completion_tokens': 31, 'total_tokens': 87},
 'choices': [
   {
    'message': {
      'role': 'assistant',
      'content': 'The 2020 World Series was played in Arlington, Texas at the Globe Life Field, which was the new home stadium for the Texas Rangers.'},
    'finish_reason': 'stop',
    'index': 0
   }
  ]
}
In Python, the assistant’s reply can be extracted with response[‘choices’][0][‘message’][‘content’].

Every response will include a finish_reason. The possible values for finish_reason are:

stop: API returned complete model output
length: Incomplete model output due to max_tokens parameter or token limit
content_filter: Omitted content due to a flag from our content filters
null: API response still in progress or incomplete
Managing tokens
Language models read text in chunks called tokens. In English, a token can be as short as one character or as long as one word (e.g., a or apple), and in some languages tokens can be even shorter than one character or even longer than one word.

For example, the string “ChatGPT is great!” is encoded into six tokens: [“Chat”, “G”, “PT”, “ is”, “ great”, “!”].

The total number of tokens in an API call affects: How much your API call costs, as you pay per token How long your API call takes, as writing more tokens takes more time Whether your API call works at all, as total tokens must be below the model’s maximum limit (4096 tokens for gpt-3.5-turbo-0301)

Both input and output tokens count toward these quantities. For example, if your API call used 10 tokens in the message input and you received 20 tokens in the message output, you would be billed for 30 tokens.

To see how many tokens are used by an API call, check the usage field in the API response (e.g., response[‘usage’][‘total_tokens’]).

To see how many tokens are in a text string without making an API call, use OpenAI’s tiktoken Python library. Example code can be found in the OpenAI Cookbook’s guide on how to count tokens with tiktoken.

Each message passed to the API consumes the number of tokens in the content, role, and other fields, plus a few extra for behind-the-scenes formatting. This may change slightly in the future.

If a conversation has too many tokens to fit within a model’s maximum limit (e.g., more than 4096 tokens for gpt-3.5-turbo), you will have to truncate, omit, or otherwise shrink your text until it fits. Beware that if a message is removed from the messages input, the model will lose all knowledge of it.

Note too that very long conversations are more likely to receive incomplete replies. For example, a gpt-3.5-turbo conversation that is 4090 tokens long will have its reply cut off after just 6 tokens.

Instructing chat models
Best practices for instructing models may change from model version to version. The advice that follows applies to gpt-3.5-turbo-0301 and may not apply to future models.

Many conversations begin with a system message to gently instruct the assistant. For example, here is one of the system messages used for ChatGPT:

You are ChatGPT, a large language model trained by OpenAI. Answer as concisely as possible. Knowledge cutoff: {knowledge_cutoff} Current date: {current_date}

In general, gpt-3.5-turbo-0301 does not pay strong attention to the system message, and therefore important instructions are often better placed in a user message.

If the model isn’t generating the output you want, feel free to iterate and experiment with potential improvements. You can try approaches like:

Make your instruction more explicit
Specify the format you want the answer in
Ask the model to think step by step or debate pros and cons before settling on an answer
For more prompt engineering ideas, read the OpenAI Cookbook guide on techniques to improve reliability.

Beyond the system message, the temperature and max tokens are two of many options developers have to influence the output of the chat models. For temperature, higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic. In the case of max tokens, if you want to limit a response to a certain length, max tokens can be set to an arbitrary number. This may cause issues for example if you set the max tokens value to 5 since the output will be cut-off and the result will not make sense to users.

Chat vs Completions
Because gpt-3.5-turbo performs at a similar capability to text-davinci-003 but at 10% the price per token, we recommend gpt-3.5-turbo for most use cases.

For many developers, the transition is as simple as rewriting and retesting a prompt.

For example, if you translated English to French with the following completions prompt:

Translate the following English text to French: “{text}”
An equivalent chat conversation could look like:

1
2
3
4
[
  {“role”: “system”, “content”: “You are a helpful assistant that translates English to French.”},
  {“role”: “user”, “content”: ‘Translate the following English text to French: “{text}”’}
]
Or even just the user message:

1
2
3
[
  {“role”: “user”, “content”: ‘Translate the following English text to French: “{text}”’}
]

tl;dr;